 A comprehensive gene discovery of CYP450 gene family in s.alatum and their regulatory mechanism in Lignan biosynthesis
 
1. Introduction

**Sesame species and its evloution**
Sesame is one of the important ancient orphan crop with high nutritional values, is widely cultivated through Asia and Africa and other countries. In sesame genus, over 30 species are most commonly cultivated edible oil crop species in the genus (Nayar et al. 1970). 
Natural sesame species can be divided into three types based on chromosome numbers, that is, 2n = 26 (for example, S. indicum, S. alatum), 2n = 32 (for example, S. protratum, S. angolense) and 2n = 64 (for example, S. radiatum, S. schinzianum) [14, 37]. 
*Importance of sal. than other species*
*So far_gap about breeding in sal.*
*lignan biosynthesis*
*overcome this issues and to be a great model organism in sesame*
Hence, in this investigation using NGS technology has been used for RNA sequencing and de novo transcriptome assembly of sal seed, using Illumina HiseqTM 2000 platform, to identify known and novel transcripts of various metabolic pathways including lignan biosynthesis. Further, the study also focused on the identification of different cytochrome P450 genes in the seeds, and deduced proteins were classified into the families. This is the first report on sal seed transcriptome in the public database as a TSA record. The assembled and annotated transcripts of sal., can be used as the public information dataset. Our approach provide a basis for further researchers on plant breeding and bioengineering of sal, plants and they represent a shrotcut to gene discovery in these species.




2. Materials and Methods

Plant material
Plants were grown in the experimental farm of the Rural development and administration, Jeonju, South Korea. 
RNA isolation and cDNA synthesis for sequencing were carried out as previuosly reported (). Here we used unreplicated data for a sample. 

RNA isolation and Illumina sequencing
For the generation of cDNA libraries, we employed an Illumina Hiseq 2000 sequencer (Illumina Inc., San Diego, CA, USA). we sequnced 101 bp paired end (PE) reads (). Our short read data in FASTQ file format were produced by ...(). Short reads that didnot pass illumina standard qulaity filter were eliminated. the process clean reads from the mRNA pool isolated......

De novo assembly and sequence process
 High quality RNA-Seq reads (sequences) were used in the subsequent de novo transcriptome assembly. Raw reads were pre-processed by removal of adapters and low quality sequences using the Trinity program (Grabherr et al. 2011). sequencing summary and statistics showing the total number of reads before and after trimming and quality filtering is presented in Table. RNA seq read quality before and after trimming was assessed by using FASTQC. we then subjected secondary assembly with CD-HIT EST v4.6.1 (Fu et al. 2012) tool to cluster contigs originating from the same gene or protein with default parameters to reduce transcript redundancy and produce unique genes (unigenes). Followed by the assembled unigenes to read alignment with Bowtie2 (ref). 

Function annotation
 we performed functional annotation of all the transcripts/unigenes with NCBI BLAST 2.11.0 of local BLASTX search (ref) against the Uniprot/swissprot, Refseq plant protein sequences and NR database. Additionally, a BLASTx search against the TAIR Version 10 database http://www.arabidopsis.org/ was performed with an E-value threshold of less than 10-5. 
GO mapping was performed against the gene ontology database implemented in Omics box (v2.0.10) (ref) (Conesa et al., 2005) to assign GO categories, an EC number and KEGG pathways (Kanehisa et al., 2014) based on the BLAST results with default settings. The OmicBox program was used to assign Gene Ontology (GO) terms to the annotated sequences to predict the functions of the unique sequences with an e-value hit filter set to 1 × 10−3, annotation cutoff of 55 and evidence code set to 0.8 for the different categories as implemented in OmicsBox. Furthermore, KEGG analysis was used to identify potential pathways represented in the transcriptomes. Sequences that shared similarities with known protein sequences in BLASTX searches with significant similarity (E < 1e−10) were identified using InterProScan. The OmicBox program was used to assign GO terms to the annotated sequences to predict the functions of the unique sequences and encoded translated proteins. 
 To identify the transcription factors in the Sal transcript dataset, we also applied the BLASTX (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi)search program against the plant transcription factor database. Annotated sequences were further characterized based on EggNOG classifications.

Identification of CYP450 gene family

Coding regions of the assembled transcripts were predicted using TransDecoder (v. 5.5.0) with default settings (https://github.com/TransDecoder/TransDecoder/wiki). We used selected the single best open reading frame (ORF) per transcript longer than 100 peptides.
Phylogentic analysis
Use MAFFT to perform multiple sequence alignment, Selected sequences were aligned based on translated protein sequences with MAFFT  
trimal is tool for the automated removal of spurious sequences or poorly aligned regions from a multiple sequence alignment. 
from each curated MSA, we used IQ-Tree to infer or modelfinder plus phylogeny 
The tree was inferred by maximum likelihood with IQ-TREE

3. Results and Discussion
3.1 Illumina sequencing and De novo assembly
3.2 Functional annotation



4. Conclusion

Supplementary Materials:
Acknowledgments
Author Contributions
Data Availability Statement:
Conflicts of Interest:
References:
1. Nayar N.M., Mehra K.L. Sesame: Its uses, botany, cytogenetics and origin. Econ. Bot. 1970;24:20–31. doi: 10.1007/BF02860629)

Grabherr, M. G., Haas, B. J., Yassour, M., Levin, J. Z., Thompson, D. A., Amit, I., et al. (2011). Full-length transcriptome assembly from RNA-Seq data without a reference genome. Nat. Biotechnol. 29, 644–652. doi: 10.1038/nbt.1883

Nimmakayala P, Perumal R, Mulpuri S, Reddy UK: Sesamum. Wild Crop Relatives: Genomic and Breeding Resources Oilseeds. Edited by: Kole C. 2011, Berlin Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 261-273.

Ashi A: Sesame (Sesamum indicum L.). Genetic Resources, Chromosome Engineering, and Crop Improvement. Edited by: Signh RJ. 2006, Boca Raton: CRC Press, 231-280.

Fu, L., Niu, B., Zhu, Z., Wu, S. & Li, W. CD-HIT: accelerated for clustering the next-generation sequencing data. Bioinformatics 28, 3150–2 (2012).

Kanehisa M. and Goto S. (2000). KEGG: kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes. Nucleic acids research, 28(1), 27-30.

OmicsBox - Bioinformatics made easy. BioBam Bioinformatics (Version 2.0.10). March 3, 2019. www.biobam.com/omicsbox.

TransDecoder (find coding regions within transcripts). 2014. http://transdecoder.github.io/. Accessed 14 Jan 2016. 

Katoh, K. & Standley, D. M. MAFFT multiple sequence alignment software version 7: Improvements in performance and usability. Mol. Biol. Evol. 30, 772–780 (2013).

Nguyen, L.-T., Schmidt, H. A., von Haeseler, A. & Minh, B. Q. IQ-TREE: a fast and effective stochastic algorithm for estimating maximum-likelihood phylogenies. Mol. Biol. Evol. 32, 268–274 (2015).
